.TH LSBILIBOP 8 2012\-05\-15 bilibop "System Administration"

.SH NAME
lsbilibop \- list BILIBOP tagged devices or update their udev properties

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lsbilibop
.RB [ \-h | \-u ]
.br
.B lsbilibop
.B \-i
.RI [ DEVICE
.RI [ DEVICE
.RI [ ... ]]]


.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lsbilibop
is a short and simple shell script that ouputs the list of
.I BILIBOP
tagged block devices and some of their
.BR udev (7)
properties, or triggers udev rules that can be applied to these devices.
If the operating system is running from an external and writable support,
then the
.I BILIBOP
tagged devices are the block devices whose contents are on the same
physical disk than the root filesystem. This includes
.B device\-mapper
and
.B loopback
devices. The rules file
.I /lib/udev/rules.d/66\-bilibop.rules
is used to find and tag such devices.

.SH OPTIONS
When invoked without option,
.B lsbilibop
just lists the
.I BILIBOP
tagged block devices in the same order than in
.IR /proc/partitions ,
i.e. in the order they have been discovered by the kernel.
.TP 4
.B \-h
Print a help page on standard output and exit.
.TP
.B \-i
Display some useful
.BR udev (7)
properties of the device(s) given as arguments (if they are
.I BILIBOP
tagged block devices), or of all
.I BILIBOP
tagged block devices if none is specified.
The following properties are only informative:
.IP
DEVNAME
.br
BILIBOP_DISK
.br
BILIBOP_PARTITION
.br
BILIBOP_UNDERLYING_PARTITION
.IP
The following properties can be used to set BILIBOP_RULES_*_WHITELIST and
other variables in
.BR bilibop.conf (5):
.IP
ID_FS_LABEL
.br
ID_FS_TYPE
.br
ID_FS_USAGE
.br
ID_FS_UUID
.IP
The following properties can be modified by changing the corresponding
BILIBOP_RULES_* variables in
.BR bilibop.conf (5):
.IP
UDISKS_PRESENTATION_HIDE
.br
UDISKS_PRESENTATION_ICON_NAME
.br
UDISKS_PRESENTATION_NAME
.br
UDISKS_SYSTEM_INTERNAL
.TP
.B \-u
Trigger udev rules for the
.I BILIBOP
tagged block devices to update their properties. This should be used each
time the corresponding BILIBOP_RULES_* variables are modified in
.BR bilibop.conf (5),
to apply the new settings without need to reboot the system.

.SH FILES
/etc/bilibop/bilibop.conf
.br
/usr/share/doc/bilibop\-rules/examples/bilibop.conf
.br
/usr/share/bilibop/bilibop_rules_generator
.br
/lib/udev/rules.d/66\-bilibop.rules

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bilibop (7),
.BR bilibop.conf (5),
.BR drivemap (1),
.BR udev (7),
.BR udevadm (8),
.BR udisks (7)

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page has been written by « bilibop project » <quidame@poivron.org>.
